The project focuses on Universal Basic Income (UBI) in Boston, Massachusetts. Our team, comprising Lamya, Yusra, Alex, Tsung-Han, and Xiaoyu, conducted two interconnected projects to analyze the economic condition of families and households in Boston. The first project aimed to determine the criteria for selecting participants for the universal basic income pilot program, while the second project explored the correlation between household income and family structure. The team analyzed data related to income distribution, participation in assistance programs, family size and poverty level, poverty level percentages, children and elderly in families, marital status of parents, and employment status.

Work so far:

    Deliverable 1:
        Answered these questions:
            1. What is the income distribution for Boston residents living below the poverty line?
            2. How many people participate in assistance programs - focus on WIC, Snap, and Housing  assistance?

    Deliverable 2
        Answered these questions: 
            1. Is there a correlation with family size and the level of poverty?
            2. What is the percentage for people or families living under the poverty line with respect to family size?
            3. How many people (percentage) are significantly below the poverty line? 15%, 10%, and 5% 

    Extension Project
        Answering these questions: 
            1. How many people in families are children/elderly? What is the distribution of ages among the children and elderly?
            2. Are the parents in the family Married? Divorced? Or single parent? 
            3. How many members in families are employed and working? Is there any correlation between income and work experience, or income and education level? 

    Data:
        All census data are named after the table they have been taken from on the census site
        Data used for a specific deliverable will be stored in a Data folder under that deliverable folder (on the google drive)
        Some data has been cleaned. If they are cleaned, it will be specified with the word “cleaned” in the file name
        
    For Notebooks:
        All data used in notebooks should be stored in Data folders for the deliverable they are associated with
        Ensure the notebook is saved to a location where their respective data is saved under a subfolder called “data”
